HR Manager
HR Manager - NGC MEDICAL S.r.l.- a Medtronic Group Company
Desio, Lombardia
As international multilingual experienced Manager, fluent in English, Spanish, German - Italian mother tongue -, I'm familiar with HR Best Practices and policies, I know how to bring this expertise across the organization, to employees,middle and upper management. I have a real Passion for HR related topics, and I gained an international mindset thanks to more than 20 years' experience working in multinational companies, 10 of them leading Human Resources' activities abroad.  
Accountable for coming up with effective HR solutions and strategies that are in alignment with the company's goals and values, my contribution has been valued significant as Change Agent for the implementation of corporate processes and organizational cultural change.
Esperienza lavorativa
HR Manager
NGC MEDICAL S.r.l.- a Medtronic Group Company
Da settembre 2016 a oggi
Business: Healthcare  
Turnover: 100 Million € - Direct Managed Employees: 150  
  
HR Manager: Reporting solid to the HR EMEA Director and dotted to the General Manager,  
responsible for HR activities at 360°. Member of the Leadership Team. Contribute to business  
strategy & results.  
  
Key responsibilities: Guide and manage the overall provision of Human Resources services,  
policies, and programs.  
HR planning and strategic recruiting at different levels, leading recruitment process,  
partnering and coaching with hiring managers.  
Performance management: performance reviews and appraisal, according to the rules and regulation set by the Corporate.  
Industrial and Employee relations: negotiations, personnel health & safety, welfare and wellness.  
Change Management agent: providing guidance and training, partnering with ad-hoc  
provider enabling the growth & development of people and business.  
Supervising Comp&Ben process: leading the salary review process set by the HQ.  
Organizational planning: performance management, employment and compliance to the labor law.  
Talent Management & Employer Branding: talent acquisition, onboarding process, career  
development, assessments, training and retention.  
  
I authorize the treatment of my personal data according to the provisions of GDPR and the Italian Data Protection Law  
CURRICULUM VITAE
HR Manager
BASF ITALIA SpA -  Barcelona, ES
Da gennaio 2010 a agosto 2016
for BASF Business Services Spa (Cesano M.) and BASF Business Services Spain  
SA (Tarragona and Barcelona- Spain); HR BP for BASF Italia Mortara Site (Chemical  
Production Plant).  
  
Key responsibilities:  
Industrial & employee relations: employee performance management, disciplinary actions,  
labor contracts, restructures, workforce planning, succession planning, career path analysis,  
transfers & expatriates. Unions negotiations, HR policies' implementation.  
Performance management: provide guidance to line management, coaching, career  
development, implementation of HR policies.  
Talent Management: Forecast and plan talent pipeline, training needs for executives,  
managers and employees: focused on career development. Evaluation and monitoring of training programs, as well as follow-up to ensure that training objectives are met successfully.  
Comp.& Ben: support Line Managers with the Salary Review process guidelines set by the HQ.  
EHS: compliance with Health and Safety policies and procedures.  
Project Manager for a new application implementation in South Europe.  
Partnering with corporate CoE and SSC.  
Other HR responsibilities: drive a performance culture in line with corporate principles, being  
a promoter and sponsor of the company culture and values.
Senior HR Officer
BASF Business Services - Cesano Maderno (MB)
Da gennaio 2002 a dicembre 2009
Business: Information Technology  
  
Key Responsibilities: manage the day-to-day HR operations in strictly collaboration with the German HR Manager, managing administration/implementation of HR policies and procedures.  
Main responsibilities: HR Administration, employee relations, training, employee and management  
development, benefits, compensation.
Istruzione e Formazione
Bachelor's degree
University of Law "Linguistic and Cultural Mediation"
Da 2007 a 2011
Universitat Oberta de Catalunya -  Barcelona, ES
2008
Goethe Institut
1999
German
University "H. Heine" -  Düsseldorf, DE
1999
Advanced German Training
Deutsch Institut
1998
Liceo Linguistico PAPA RATTI
1990
Laurea in Mediazione Linguistica
Università Insubria -  Como, Lombardia
Laurea in Mediazione Linguistica
Università dell'Insubria
Certificazioni/Licenze
LICENCED COACH
Autorizzo il trattamento dei miei dati personali ai sensi dell’art. 13 D.Lgs. 30 giugno 2003 n. 196 e dell’art. 13 del Regolamento (UE) 2016/679.