HR Manager Italy
HR Manager Italy - Cavotec Spa
Carnate, Lombardia
Passion and energy. Goal oriented, good interpersonal skills, flexible. I love to be close to the business and support it. I'm able to structure the unstructured environments. I'm a bridge among different cultures.
Esperienza lavorativa
HR Manager Italy
Cavotec Spa
Da marzo 2017 a oggi
Cavotec is an international and listed company present in 54 countries, 800 people. It is a leading engineering group that designs and manufactures automated connection and electrification systems for ports, airports and industrial applications worldwide.  
  
HR Manager Italy  
HR Business Partner for P&M Division ( Italy, China, Usa, New Zealand)  
  
Main responsibilities: restructuring plan, cultural change, recruitment, training, development, staff management, personnel costs, payroll.  
  
Key Business achievements  
• Recruitment plan  
• Restructuring plan  
• Management of the transfer in the new building
HR Business Partner - Development and Talent Manager- Italy and Romania
Cerved Group SpA
Da 2009 a febbraio 2017
Cerved is a business information Company. Stock ticker CERV, listed in June 2014, mkt cap €1,4B. Annual turnover €353 million, 2000 people. The company has grown exponentially in recent years through M&A.  
  
HR Business Partner - Development and Talent Manager- Italy and Romania  
  
Main Responsibilities: competence model, performance management, staff integration for the group (M&A), staff management, replacement, outplacement, staff costs, recruitment (managers & staff), training, talent development.  
  
Key Business achievements:  
• Organizational analysis and integration of the personnel of 15 acquired companies (M&A).  
• Project leader of the process "People Development", introducing the corporate competency model, annual appraisals and individual development plans.
Cerved Group SpA
Da 2016 a 2016
of 210 people, with an increase of 20 % on previous year, and 105 % above plan.  
• Corporate e-learning platform.  
• Built and managed the "Leadership Project": built a new culture after merger of 9 companies. C.a. 300 of our people involved.
Recruitment e training Manager - Italy
Lince SpA
Da 2000 a 2009
Lince is a Business Information Company. Privately held. Turnover €70 million. Prox. 300 people  
  
Recruitment e training Manager - Italy  
  
Main Responsibilities: recruiting, training. Focus on sales (about 200 people). Manager of 2 people  
  
Key Business achievements:  
• Renewal of sales force, after which a reduction of turnover of people from 25% to10%.  
• Reorganization of sales force training.  
• HR representative for company website.
Business partner - Store Human
Leroy Merlin SpA. - Auchan Group
Da 1996 a 2000
Privately held. Turnover €6 billion. 330 DIY retail superstores - 120 people per store  
  
Business partner - Store Human resources Manager- Italy and France -  
  
Main Responsibilities: recruiting, training, people development, labour law & legislation, union relations.  
  
Key Business achievements: opening of 1st Italian store, co-startup of the HR area in Leroy Merlin Italy.
Istruzione e Formazione
policies and industrial
University of Milan
1996
Italian
High School Liceo Scientifico "A. Banfi"
Autorizzo il trattamento dei miei dati personali ai sensi dell’art. 13 D.Lgs. 30 giugno 2003 n. 196 e dell’art. 13 del Regolamento (UE) 2016/679.