IT Project Manager Cosultant
IT Project Manager Cosultant - R1 S.p.A
Fiumicino, Lazio
IT native with good technical expertise and great scope of complex projects and their life cycles. Sharp  
look to intercept internal demand and design effective solutions. Proven ability working on the  
integration of different ICT systems and experienced into startup of new one. Looking for a new and  
challenging managerial position which can take advantage of my existing skills and experiences, further  
improving my knowledge on both professional and personal perspective.
Esperienza lavorativa
IT Project Manager Cosultant
R1 S.p.A -  Roma, Lazio
Da aprile 2018 a oggi
Preparation of technical documentation supporting calls for tenders for the following:
Project Management
R1 S.p.A
Da 2018 a dicembre 2018
IT Manager
R1 S.p.A
Da maggio 2018 a maggio 2018
and Community Cloud Services and project management of the technical team engaged into the project  
(May 2018).
R1 S.p.A
Da aprile 2018 a aprile 2018
maintenance of IT Infrastructure.  
  
o ALD Automotive Italia (September 2018): IT Operations Services.  
  
o ANAS (October 2018): IT Operations Services.  
  
o ANPAL (November 2018): technical project for a Data Mining System/ Learning Machine.  
  
o CONI (December 2018): perimetral security technical project.  
  
o ENGIE (December 2018): management of the backup system.
Zucchetti Mago Suite
ISP Logistica, Aprilia (LT)
Da giugno 2017 a ottobre 2017
Strategical Planning Manager
Alitalia S.A.I., Fiumicino (RM)
Da gennaio 2015 a marzo 2017
Alitalia responsive website (Adobe CMS): test management, test kits editing, KPI definition and monitoring (Adobe Analytics, BMC Coradiant), strategical planning of website maintenance  
activities.  
• Alitalia Arco - Sabre migration: test management, test kits editing.  
Technological interface with AZ IT.
IT Manager
Air One Smart Carrier
Da maggio 2010 a dicembre 2014
Malpensa and Fiumicino  
• Deployment of Navitaire reservation system: project leader for Air One Smart Carrier startup  
and integration between Navitaire and Alitalia/third parties systems: Navitaire/Alitalia Arco code  
share, Revenue Accounting (Alitalia Sirax), DCS (Departure Control System: Alitalia Arco, Sita,  
Codeco, Altea, Gaetan), Revenue Management (airRM/Sabre AirMax), GDS (Global  
Distribution System: Amadeus, Travelport), OTA (On line Travel Agency: Bravofly,  
Travelfusion), Antifraud system (CyberSouce), Payment Processing Systems (RBS Worldpay,  
Network International, SETEFI).  
• Website Air One with Open Source CMS (Umbraco): technological management, monitoring  
and maintenance.  
• Definition and monitoring of system KPIs.  
• Queries design and creation (Microsoft SQL) for reporting.  
• Second level assistance for Navitaire system.  
• Technological interface with Alitalia IT.  
• Air One IT budget management.
IT Operations Manager
Alitalia C.A.I -  Roma, Lazio
Da febbraio 2009 a aprile 2010
Alitalia Help Desk: definition of needs/scope, design, KPIs definition and monitoring.
CED & Network Manager
Air One Smart Carrier -  Roma, Lazio
Da maggio 2003 a gennaio 2009
Air One LAN/WAN design and deployment: setup and configuration of Open Source VPN  
(OpenVPN), firewalling (IPtables/Netfilter), LAN monitoring (HP OpenView).  
• Air One Data Center design and deployment: virtualization (WMware), SAN setup (NetApp), e- mail (Microsoft Exchange), backup system setup (IBM Tivoli).  
• Design and deployment of Air One VoIP system based on Open Source solution (Asterisk).  
• Reservation system migration (Alitalia Arco - Sabre).  
• DCS (Departure Control System) deployment into all airports served by Air One (Italy and USA).  
• Customer Support: business continuity monitoring and internal Help Desk.  
• IT budget management.
Project Manager
Media Link S.r.l -  Milano, Lombardia
Da marzo 1999 a aprile 2003
• e-learning and entertainment: design of interactive multimedia products (CD-ROM based) and websites for Microsoft, Rizzoli New Media, DeAgostini Professionale, Domus Editoriale.  
• Technology budget management.
IT Consultant
Cardiovascular Surgery - San Raffaele Hospital -  Milano, Lombardia
Da gennaio 1998 a febbraio 1999
e-learning: design and development of interactive multimedia courseware with Macromedia  
Director.  
• Clinical Data Analysis: data mining and clustering with Statsoft Statistica.  
• IT budget management.
IT Consultant
Centro Televisivo Universitario - University of Milan -  Milano, Lombardia
Da febbraio 1991 a dicembre 1997
e-learning: design and development of interactive multimedia software (cross platform PC & Macintosh) based on optical supports (Laservision videodisk and CD-ROM) with Macromedia  
Autorware/Director, Apple HyperCard, OWL Guide for University of Milan, University of Parma,  
University of Udine, Regione Sicilia.  
• CTU LAN: interconnection with Optical Fiber Backbone of the University of Milan, routing and firewalling.  
• IT budget management.
IT Consultant
IULM - International University of Languages and Media -  Milano, Lombardia
Da gennaio 1994 a gennaio 1996
e-learning: design and development of interactive multimedia courseware and self-assessment  
with Apple HyperCard.  
• IULM Linguistic Center and Multimedia LAB LAN.
IT Consultant
Da marzo 1985 a gennaio 1991
- Milano  
• Software developer: courseware development with DB III and Clipper framework for RCS  
Editori.
Istruzione e Formazione
Bachelor Degree in Computer Science
University of Milan
febbraio 1991
Competenze
audit (Meno di 1 anno), budgeting (Meno di 1 anno), documentation (1 anno), maintenance (6 anni), SQL (4 anni)
Informazioni addizionali
Key Qualifications  
  
• Deep knowledge of projects management (both Agile, Prince2 and Waterfall approaches).  
• Strong skill writing documentation for ITC procedures, security and disaster recovery.  
• Strong IT, commercial, planning and budgeting skills.  
• Able to communicate technicalities to non-technical audience.  
• Focused on Customer satisfaction and problem solving.  
• Management of server software and associated tasks (maintenance, upgrade, backup, audit)  
• Knowledge of wired and wireless networking topics (firewall, routers, telephony).  
• Knowledge in design and develop relational data bases.  
• Knowledge on VBScript, Javascript, XHTML, CSS, PHP and SQL.
Autorizzo il trattamento dei miei dati personali ai sensi dell’art. 13 D.Lgs. 30 giugno 2003 n. 196 e dell’art. 13 del Regolamento (UE) 2016/679.