Ingegnere Biomedico
Roma, Lazio
Esperienza lavorativa
Ingegnere Biomedico
Augusto High School
Da 2006 a 2011
The thesis work I carried out involved the analysis of a chronic pathology that  
Master's Degree in Biomedical Engineering, Robotics and affects a high percentage of patients in the world. A system equipped with a Bionics curriculum, looking for a profession in the field of perfusion pump and a PVC duct in which the medicine for treating the disease  
tissue engineering and artificial intelligence. My desire is to was sized. I calculated the load losses and the efficiency in the duct in order to work in a dynamic and continuous environment, able to allow optimize and evaluate the overall efficiency.  
me a constant professional and personal growth. I am a  
• 2006 - 2011: Augusto High School  
determined person, able to adapt to different contexts,  
Diploma of Classical Maturity, IT address  
willing and able to work under pressure.
Istruzione e Formazione
Master's Degree in Biomedical Engineering in Clinical and industrial robotics
Roma University -  Roma, Lazio
Da 2016 a 2019
Bachelor's Degree in Industrial Engineering in Industrial Engineering
Roma University
Da 2014 a 2016
Competenze
assembly (3 anni), AUTO CAD (5 anni), Autocad (5 anni), c++ (3 anni), CAD (5 anni), microsoft office (7 anni)
Certificazioni/Licenze
Patente B
Informazioni addizionali
TECHNICAL SKILLS  
§ OnShape: expert user  
§ SolidWorks: expert user  
§ Eagle: expert user  
§ Autocad: expert user  
§ Mathcad: base user  
§ Matlab: base user  
§ C++: expert user  
§ Geogebra: expert user  
§ Office: exper user  
§ LyX: base user  
§ Simscale: expert user  
§ Simulink: expert user  
  
PERSONAL SKILLS  
§ Public speaking  
§ Project management  
§ Team leading  
§ Team working
Autorizzo il trattamento dei miei dati personali ai sensi dell’art. 13 D.Lgs. 30 giugno 2003 n. 196 e dell’art. 13 del Regolamento (UE) 2016/679.